[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: If you looked at home.js.
Then you have some good hints
on what blog was doing.
Because it's very very similar.
But we're not even looking at the code.
You can assume that
they're gonna be similar.
Because architecture is so well built
because they're both in the components
folder and they're both siblings.
And these are probably gonna have a very,
very, very similar
styles if not identical.
Which is different names and
prior their control is a little different.
But you can imagine that they're
probably very very similar.
And this is the structure outside my view.
Here is some type of structure like
this that you have these guarantees.
So I know just by looking at this that I
know blog and home are very similar and
like at least like their
base functionality.
The fact that they have a HTML file,
an entry file, a stylus file,
directive controller.
So the first thing that I would have done
here was I would have went to app.js,
now how did it did this.
Imported the blog from blog and
we'll put blog.name here.
And these are the last step that
a lot of people just forgot to do.
This is the thing that I said this
is what people forget to do a lot.
So I just do it first and
then just let the error tell me to fix it.
So I'll do that,
>> Scott Moss: And
then head over to blog.js,
which is the next file.
Because that's the thing being imported.
And then there was some
comments up here that was,
like, make sure to import this directive,
and all that stuff.
So it kind of told you what to do and
if you looked at home.js, it has that.
It's doing the same thing.
So import the directive
from the directive, and
then I'm just gonna
register the directive.
And then I'm just gonna go ahead and
make a new state with /blog and
pass in the directive
that we just made below.
So this is something new.
I mean normally you would just be like
simple template URL right here, and
you'd like,
all right go to this template, right?
And then you'd have some stuff in there,
which is totally fine.
But because our entire
component is the page itself,
we can just pass in the actual
blogDirective itself, which is super easy.
Does everybody follow me there?
So we made this directive called blog and
we're immediately assigning it
to the template of the URL/blog.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's all that's happening here.
And of course we need to export this,
right?
If we didn't export this,
we couldn't import it.
So I just snuck in a export
right there on the left.
Alternatively of course, you could you
could have done this, if you wanted to.
You could have came out here and said
export blog and It'll work the same way.
>> Speaker 2: Is there any benefit to
this outside of the example you've given,
where we use a builtcode
that you don't need?
>> Scott Moss: Benefits you.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry, building,
like your own average.
So you're the self coder of making
each page modular like this,
so that they have to have a directive and
they have to have.
>> Scott Moss: If you were the only one?
Where it benefits?
>> Speaker 2: Yes,
like performance wise or anything.
>> Scott Moss: Performance
wise it's not any different.
I mean, in fact, it might be simpler
because Angular doesn't have to work so
hard to link up the controllers
in your template.
Because you're not
registering controllers.
You're just pressing
a directive that has a control.
It's is a little different there as far
as what Angular has to look for, so
that might be a little better.
You also eliminate nested controllers,
which is really good.
And then I think that's it for
performance wise.
I think the big benefit
is just organization and
the fact that Angular2 is doing this.
So that's the biggest benefit.
Yeah, other than that, if you wanna go,
if you're okay with your own coding style,
you don't really care about.
Yeah, you could totally just do
whatever you want, but eventually,
somebody's gonna look at it.
[LAUGH] Somebody's gonna look at it,
so remember that.
They always do, somebody always will.
Cool, so
if you were to look in the ACML file,
you've got some hints on what you
needed to make to get this to work.
So I'm glad that people were getting that.
There was supposed to be a post array,
right?
And they're supposed to have objects
in them that have a title and
author property.
That's all it was looking for,
so you can put as many or
as little as you want in there.
I already put the image in there for
you, so
you don't have to worry about the image.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
It knows I'm using VM, right?
So blog.directive.
So this is like the entry
point of all the magic.
So this job is to import the CSS file and
the HTML file or the template and
also the controller.
So I'm employing the stylus file first.
I want that to load up immediately,
put that in the head, and
then I'm going to import the template.
So the way that template works
is if you go to webpack.config,
there's a raw loader for
anything that has HTML.
Raw loader means load up this file and
give me the raw text as a string.
So it gave me the HTML file as a string,
so that's crazy.
Because usually it's the other way around.
You would put a script tag in HTML.
Now you're putting HTML
in your JavaScripts.
Ridiculous if you think about it.
So that's what I did
with the directive file.
Import the template, and
there's a variable called template.
Strategically named it template for
the sake of doing this shortcut down here.
So that's why it's called template,
just so I can do the shortcut, all right?
And in fact,
I wanted to do the shortcut again.
So when I imported my controller,
which is strictly named,
I aliased it as controller.
So I can also do the shortcut down here.
See that, so it's very strategic,
saving those keystrokes, all right?
>> Scott Moss: Actually,
I think I spent more keystrokes.
Because if I just got rid of the as,
yeah, it's actually more keystrokes,
but-
>> Speaker 3: It unifies things.
>> Scott Moss: It unifies things a lot.
It looks really nice.
All right, so cool, we got the controller.
Controller as VM for view model.
Scope, this is important.If
you get rid of this,
you're gonna have some crazy side effects
guaranteed, really bad side effects.
So keep it isolated,
restricted to an element and replace true.
Anybody know what place true does, no?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: What does it do?
>> Speaker 4: Anything with a net
element just gets vaporized some place.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so pretty much.
>> Speaker 4: The moment
you're in the element.
>> Scott Moss: Right, exactly, so
it'll take this out the DOM and
put this in the DOM.
So you look at the DOM,
you won't see blog blog.
You'll see this.
So if it fixes CSS issues because what
happens is, if you don't put replace true.
And you come in here and you'll be like,
yeah, let me go in here and
I'll put a class on here..
You start adding stuff.
You're like why is the CSS not working?
What's going on?
You think you're attaching
a class to this, but
you're actually attaching a class to
something that's out here, right?
So that fixes a lot of CSS stuff, yes?
>> Speaker 5: I thought they were
gonna deprecate and place true.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, they are.
They're gonna default to true by default.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah, that's, okay.
>> Scott Moss: Or
at least I thought they were.
I could be wrong.
I thought
they went default to true, maybe.
They're gonna default to something.
I don't know what it is, but you're right.
They need to do something
because that's just like a small
detail that nobody needs to worry about.
>> Speaker 6: Do you
need to have that then?
>> Scott Moss: No,
no you don't need to have it.
Yeah, you totally don't
need to have replace true.
I just do it because it
fixes a lot of CSS stuff.
But also if you do the replace true,
you have to make sure that
your template has a container.
It has to be encapsulated
in four elements.
So if I put a div right here,
it's gonna break.
It's like you can't do that
because you have two elements.
You need some type of container element,
all right?
I can't replace you.
So that's the only
downside of replace true.
But it should be the fact,
you should be doing that anyway.
>> Speaker 7: There's a quest online for
you to go over how the VM part works,
just very quickly
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
we have a controller and we’ll also
talk about the controller in a bit.
But it's just the constructor function.
Controller as means we want to
reference the controllers properties
inside of our template as
whatever name we put right here.
Which is a VM,
which is short for a view model.
And that's something that John Papa
created his style guide it a while back
that he uses to reference his
controllers and this is fine.
We would have any collision
with everything being a VM.
Because we have an isolated scope and
our template is only ever gonna be for
our controllers only ever
gonna be its template here.
So now if I want to reference
things in the controller.
So inside the controller if I have at
this .message I can to save VM.message.
Whereas VM is that this inside of HTML.
It's the same if we put things
on the scope, scope.message.
We would just have this.
It would just be a message.
But VM.message just makes it a little bit
easier to understand what's going on.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, okay, so got that.
Any questions on the directive?
And of course export it.
>> Speaker 8: Yeah,
just one quick question.
If you do not include scope,
is it inherited scope?
>> Scott Moss: If you
do not include scope-
>> Speaker 8: It's just did not even
crossing another object here?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so if you don't
include it, by default, it will be this,
which means the same scope.
I'm sorry my default is this, sorry,
which means it's the same scope.
The other two values are true,
which means child scope and
then the one we have is isolated scope,
yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions?
So because this blogDirective is
the function that's gonna be ran or
instantiated.
It's the dependence injection, so we need
to inject some stuff into this directive,
we do it right here.
HTP,
>> Scott Moss: All right?
So this is the dependence injection.
There are times where we cannot use arrow
functions for dependence injection.
There are times.
I will talk about those times, but
for right now, we can use it here.
It's okay, it's okay to use it here.
But there are times where we can
not use it, like services or
in-line controllers like.
Actually, if we were to come here.
Which people normally do,
you come here you put a controller right?
On your state.
And normally, you put a name or
you put a name of a controller here.
But you can also put a function here,
too, right?
So you might be thinking, okay, right?
That'll work.
Anyone know why that would not work?
>> Scott Moss: Or
why that would be bad if you did that?
>> Speaker 9: The context stays.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah the context,
that this inside this controller would
be the same this out here, right?
You just messed up now.
You screwed up, all right?
>> Speaker 9: [LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you don't wanna do that.
It's the same thing if you did this,
same thing.
You don't wanna do that, all right?
So in this case,
if you're doing an inline controller,
you would have to do it the hard way.
I mean use the whole function keyword,
have to do it.
I know it hurts but you have to do it and
services as well because
Angular calls new on a service and
arrow functions are not constructor.
They're not.
Do not use arrow function for
constructor functions, just don't.
They're not meant to replace that.
Also do not recommend this arrow
functions for recursive functions.
Just don't do it.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
any questions on this?
>> Scott Moss: Great.
All right, so the controller,
this is my controller.
I inputted lodash and
I'm exporting the class BlogController.
I'm following the same naming convention
as whatever home was, which was home.
Where you at?
Here we are.
HomeController, all right?
So If you go back to BlogController,
>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna go ahead,
I'm just gonna export it.
So right now,
we can get away with just exporting it.
In the future, we will not be able to
do this and I'm gonna show you why.
It's because we have to handle injection.
But right now, we don't have
anything injected in here, so
it's totally fine to just
export this immediately.
But eventually if you start injecting
stuff, this will break our minification.
So I'll show you how to get around that.
But anyway, so
we're exporting the BlogController.
And inside the constructor
just have this.message, and
then I'll just use underscore to return
nine of these things, pretty cool.
Here's also another neat shortcut
that I can do because I'm only doing.
Wait, yeah, because I'm only doing this
online I can do something like this I can
just get rid of that and rid of that.
And do something like, really a long line,
>> Scott Moss: But that'll work.
I could just do that.
Actually, I got to get rid of return.
That'll work.
So you do that with arrow function.
You can just put the function
body on one line if you're only
gonna reference one argument
in a callback function.
If there's zero arguments,
can't do it, man.
You have to do this.
And if you do that, you can't do one line.
If there is more than one argument,
you can't do it and
you've gotta go to the next line.
So because I'm only referencing one
argument, I can avoid the parenthesis,
reference the argument,
which in this case I'm gonna put I.
I'm not even using it, and
then whatever comes out that arrow
would immediately be returned.
But there's a long line, it's angry,
so let's go the other way.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, cool.
There we go.
All right, any questions on that?
All right, so now we should have the cats,
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
and you should be able to
navigate back and forth.
So make sure you got that, too.
If you're not navigating back and
forth, you've got a problem.
Look at your counsul if you're not.